Set (imp. & p. p.) of Set
Set (v. t.) To cause to sit; to make to assume a specified position or attitude; to give site or place to; to place; to put; to fix; as, to set a house on a stone foundation; to set a book on a shelf; to set a dish on a table; to set a chest or trunk on its bottom or on end.
Set (v. t.) Hence, to attach or affix (something) to something else, or in or upon a certain place.
Set (v. t.) To make to assume specified place, condition, or occupation; to put in a certain condition or state (described by the accompanying words); to cause to be.
Set (v. t.) To fix firmly; to make fast, permanent, or stable; to render motionless; to give an unchanging place, form, or condition to.
Set (v. t.) To cause to stop or stick; to obstruct; to fasten to a spot; hence, to occasion difficulty to; to embarrass; as, to set a coach in the mud.
Set (v. t.) To fix beforehand; to determine; hence, to make unyielding or obstinate; to render stiff, unpliant, or rigid; as, to set one's countenance.
Set (v. t.) To fix in the ground, as a post or a tree; to plant; as, to set pear trees in an orchard.
Set (v. t.) To fix, as a precious stone, in a border of metal; to place in a setting; hence, to place in or amid something which serves as a setting; as, to set glass in a sash.
Set (v. t.) To render stiff or solid; especially, to convert into curd; to curdle; as, to set milk for cheese.
Set (v. t.) To put into a desired position or condition; to adjust; to regulate; to adapt.
Set (v. t.) To put in order in a particular manner; to prepare; as, to set (that is, to hone) a razor; to set a saw.
Set (v. t.) To extend and bring into position; to spread; as, to set the sails of a ship.
Set (v. t.) To give a pitch to, as a tune; to start by fixing the keynote; as, to set a psalm.
Set (v. t.) To reduce from a dislocated or fractured state; to replace; as, to set a broken bone.
Set (v. t.) To make to agree with some standard; as, to set a watch or a clock.
Set (v. t.) To lower into place and fix solidly, as the blocks of cut stone in a structure.
Set (v. t.) To stake at play; to wager; to risk.
Set (v. t.) To fit with music; to adapt, as words to notes; to prepare for singing.
Set (v. t.) To determine; to appoint; to assign; to fix; as, to set a time for a meeting; to set a price on a horse.
Set (v. t.) To adorn with something infixed or affixed; to stud; to variegate with objects placed here and there.
Set (v. t.) To value; to rate; -- with at.
Set (v. t.) To point out the seat or position of, as birds, or other game; -- said of hunting dogs.
Set (v. t.) To establish as a rule; to furnish; to prescribe; to assign; as, to set an example; to set lessons to be learned.
Set (v. t.) To suit; to become; as, it sets him ill.
Set (v. t.) To compose; to arrange in words, lines, etc.; as, to set type; to set a page.
Set (v. i.) To pass below the horizon; to go down; to decline; to sink out of sight; to come to an end.
Set (v. i.) To fit music to words.
Set (v. i.) To place plants or shoots in the ground; to plant.
Set (v. i.) To be fixed for growth; to strike root; to begin to germinate or form; as, cuttings set well; the fruit has set well (i. e., not blasted in the blossom).
Set (v. i.) To become fixed or rigid; to be fastened.
Set (v. i.) To congeal; to concrete; to solidify.
Set (v. i.) To have a certain direction in motion; to flow; to move on; to tend; as, the current sets to the north; the tide sets to the windward.
Set (v. i.) To begin to move; to go out or forth; to start; -- now followed by out.
Set (v. i.) To indicate the position of game; -- said of a dog; as, the dog sets well; also, to hunt game by the aid of a setter.
Set (v. i.) To apply one's self; to undertake earnestly; -- now followed by out.
Set (v. i.) To fit or suit one; to sit; as, the coat sets well.
Set (a.) Fixed in position; immovable; rigid; as, a set line; a set countenance.
Set (a.) Firm; unchanging; obstinate; as, set opinions or prejudices.
Set (a.) Regular; uniform; formal; as, a set discourse; a set battle.
Set (a.) Established; prescribed; as, set forms of prayer.
Set (a.) Adjusted; arranged; formed; adapted.
Set (n.) The act of setting, as of the sun or other heavenly body; descent; hence, the close; termination.
Set (n.) That which is set, placed, or fixed.
Set (n.) A young plant for growth; as, a set of white thorn.
Set (n.) That which is staked; a wager; a venture; a stake; hence, a game at venture.
Set (n.) Permanent change of figure in consequence of excessive strain, as from compression, tension, bending, twisting, etc.; as, the set of a spring.
Set (n.) A kind of punch used for bending, indenting, or giving shape to, metal; as, a saw set.
Set (n.) A piece placed temporarily upon the head of a pile when the latter cannot be reached by the weight, or hammer, except by means of such an intervening piece.
Set (n.) A short steel spike used for driving the head of a nail below the surface.
Set (n.) A number of things of the same kind, ordinarily used or classed together; a collection of articles which naturally complement each other, and usually go together; an assortment; a suit; as, a set of chairs, of china, of surgical or mathematical instruments, of books, etc.
Set (n.) A number of persons associated by custom, office, common opinion, quality, or the like; a division; a group; a clique.
Set (n.) Direction or course; as, the set of the wind, or of a current.
Set (n.) In dancing, the number of persons necessary to execute a quadrille; also, the series of figures or movements executed.
Set (n.) The deflection of a tooth, or of the teeth, of a saw, which causes the the saw to cut a kerf, or make an opening, wider than the blade.
Set (n.) A young oyster when first attached.
Set (n.) Collectively, the crop of young oysters in any locality.
Set (n.) A series of as many games as may be necessary to enable one side to win six. If at the end of the tenth game the score is a tie, the set is usually called a deuce set, and decided by an application of the rules for playing off deuce in a game. See Deuce.
Set (n.) That dimension of the body of a type called by printers the width.
Set-fair (n.) In plastering, a particularly good troweled surface.
Recipience (n.) Alt. of Recipiency
Recipiency (n.) The quality or state of being recipient; a receiving; reception; receptiveness.
Recipient (n.) A receiver; the person or thing that receives; one to whom, or that to which, anything is given or communicated; specifically, the receiver of a still.
Recipient (a.) Receiving; receptive.
Reciprocal (a.) Recurring in vicissitude; alternate.
Reciprocal (a.) Done by each to the other; interchanging or interchanged; given and received; due from each to each; mutual; as, reciprocal love; reciprocal duties.
Reciprocal (a.) Mutually interchangeable.
Reciprocal (a.) Reflexive; -- applied to pronouns and verbs, but sometimes limited to such pronouns as express mutual action.
Reciprocal (a.) Used to denote different kinds of mutual relation; often with reference to the substitution of reciprocals for given quantities. See the Phrases below.
Reciprocal (n.) That which is reciprocal to another thing.
Reciprocal (n.) The quotient arising from dividing unity by any quantity; thus, / is the reciprocal of 4; 1/(a +b) is the reciprocal of a + b. The reciprocal of a fraction is the fraction inverted, or the denominator divided by the numerator.
Reciprocality (n.) The quality or condition of being reciprocal; reciprocalness.
Reciprocally (adv.) In a reciprocal manner; so that each affects the other, and is equally affected by it; interchangeably; mutually.
Reciprocally (adv.) In the manner of reciprocals.
Reciprocalness (n.) The quality or condition of being reciprocal; mutual return; alternateness.
Reciprocated (imp. & p. p.) of Reciprocate
Reciprocating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reciprocate
Reciprocate (v. i.) To move forward and backward alternately; to recur in vicissitude; to act interchangeably; to alternate.
Reciprocate (v. t.) To give and return mutually; to make return for; to give in return; to interchange; to alternate; as, to reciprocate favors.
Reciprocation (n.) The act of reciprocating; interchange of acts; a mutual giving and returning; as, the reciprocation of kindnesses.
Reciprocation (n.) Alternate recurrence or action; as, the reciprocation of the sea in the flow and ebb of tides.
Reciprocity (n.) Mutual action and reaction.
Reciprocity (n.) Reciprocal advantages, obligations, or rights; reciprocation.
Reciprocornous (a.) Having horns turning backward and then forward, like those of a ram.
Reciprocous (a.) Reciprocal.
Reciprok (a.) Reciprocal.
Reciproque (a. & n.) Reciprocal.
Recision (n.) The act of cutting off.
Recital (n.) The act of reciting; the repetition of the words of another, or of a document; rehearsal; as, the recital of testimony.
Recital (n.) A telling in detail and due order of the particulars of anything, as of a law, an adventure, or a series of events; narration.
Recital (n.) That which is recited; a story; a narration.
Recital (n.) A vocal or instrumental performance by one person; -- distinguished from concert; as, a song recital; an organ, piano, or violin recital.
Recital (n.) The formal statement, or setting forth, of some matter of fact in any deed or writing in order to explain the reasons on which the transaction is founded; the statement of matter in pleading introductory to some positive allegation.
Recitation (n.) The act of reciting; rehearsal; repetition of words or sentences.
Recitation (n.) The delivery before an audience of something committed to memory, especially as an elocutionary exhibition; also, that which is so delivered.
Recitation (n.) The rehearsal of a lesson by pupils before their instructor.
Recitative (n.) A species of musical recitation in which the words are delivered in a manner resembling that of ordinary declamation; also, a piece of music intended for such recitation; -- opposed to melisma.
Recitative (a.) Of or pertaining to recitation; intended for musical recitation or declamation; in the style or manner of recitative.
Recitativo (n.) Recitative.
Recited (imp. & p. p.) of Recite
Reciting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recite
Recite (v. t.) To repeat, as something already prepared, written down, committed to memory, or the like; to deliver from a written or printed document, or from recollection; to rehearse; as, to recite the words of an author, or of a deed or covenant.
Recite (v. t.) To tell over; to go over in particulars; to relate; to narrate; as, to recite past events; to recite the particulars of a voyage.
Recite (v. t.) To rehearse, as a lesson to an instructor.
Recite (v. t.) To state in or as a recital. See Recital, 5.
Recite (v. i.) To repeat, pronounce, or rehearse, as before an audience, something prepared or committed to memory; to rehearse a lesson learned.
Recite (n.) A recital.
Reciter (n.) One who recites; also, a book of extracts for recitation.
Recked (imp. & p. p.) of Reck
Roughte () of Reck
Recking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reck
Reck (v. t.) To make account of; to care for; to heed; to regard.
Reck (v. t.) To concern; -- used impersonally.
Reck (v. i.) To make account; to take heed; to care; to mind; -- often followed by of.
Reckless (a.) Inattentive to duty; careless; neglectful; indifferent.
Reckless (a.) Rashly negligent; utterly careless or heedless.
Reckling (a.) Needing care; weak; feeble; as, a reckling child.
Reckling (n.) A weak child or animal.
Reckoned (imp. & p. p.) of Reckon
Reckoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reckon
Reckon (v. t.) To count; to enumerate; to number; also, to compute; to calculate.
Reckon (v. t.) To count as in a number, rank, or series; to estimate by rank or quality; to place by estimation; to account; to esteem; to repute.
Reckon (v. t.) To charge, attribute, or adjudge to one, as having a certain quality or value.
Reckon (v. t.) To conclude, as by an enumeration and balancing of chances; hence, to think; to suppose; -- followed by an objective clause; as, I reckon he won't try that again.
Reckon (v. i.) To make an enumeration or computation; to engage in numbering or computing.
Reckon (v. i.) To come to an accounting; to make up accounts; to settle; to examine and strike the balance of debt and credit; to adjust relations of desert or penalty.
Reckoner (n.) One who reckons or computes; also, a book of calculations, tables, etc., to assist in reckoning.
Reckoning (n.) The act of one who reckons, counts, or computes; the result of reckoning or counting; calculation.
Reckoning (n.) An account of time
Reckoning (n.) Adjustment of claims and accounts; settlement of obligations, liabilities, etc.
Reckoning (n.) The charge or account made by a host at an inn.
Reckoning (n.) Esteem; account; estimation.
Reckoning (n.) The calculation of a ship's position, either from astronomical observations, or from the record of the courses steered and distances sailed as shown by compass and log, -- in the latter case called dead reckoning (see under Dead); -- also used for dead reckoning in contradistinction to observation.
Reckoning (n.) The position of a ship as determined by calculation.
Reclaim (v. t.) To claim back; to demand the return of as a right; to attempt to recover possession of.
Reclaimed (imp. & p. p.) of Reclaim
Reclaiming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reclaim
Reclaim (v. t.) To call back, as a hawk to the wrist in falconry, by a certain customary call.
Reclaim (v. t.) To call back from flight or disorderly action; to call to, for the purpose of subduing or quieting.
Reclaim (v. t.) To reduce from a wild to a tamed state; to bring under discipline; -- said especially of birds trained for the chase, but also of other animals.
Reclaim (v. t.) Hence: To reduce to a desired state by discipline, labor, cultivation, or the like; to rescue from being wild, desert, waste, submerged, or the like; as, to reclaim wild land, overflowed land, etc.
Reclaim (v. t.) To call back to rectitude from moral wandering or transgression; to draw back to correct deportment or course of life; to reform.
Reclaim (v. t.) To correct; to reform; -- said of things.
Reclaim (v. t.) To exclaim against; to gainsay.
